Add NPC Name Documentation (#557)
comcode-org/hackmud_wiki: docs/guides/new_players/npc_names.mdx

---
title: NPC Names
description: Turns out that jumble of letters has meaning.
---

Some notes about the information contained within the name of an NPC.

> ## NPC Name Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NPC name structure
```
`Headings should use sentence capitalization and not title capitalization.`

As you may have noticed by now, NPC names have a certain "shape" or "look" to them:

```
derelict_jrttl_pavv79
unknown_ddttl_cfarmn
uknown_jrttl_6u7yxp
anonymous_jrwlf_v53yfr
```

The name of an NPC has 3 primary "components" to it, with the structure looking something like this:

```
[prefix]_[specs]_[id]
```

The part we care about is the `specs` section.

## How to read an NPC's specs

The `specs` section consists of 5 characters, which contain 2 pieces of information: "difficulty", and class.

### Difficulty

The first two characters denotes the strength of an NPC's lockstack, with the possible values in ascending order being:

1. jr - junkrack
2. dd - diggerdeck
3. wb - wreckbox

> 4. pr - phreakyrack (??)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. pr - phreakrig
```

5. ls - leetstack

These names relate to the assessment of lockstack strength visible in ((sys.specs)).

### Class

> The last three characters denote the NPC's class. It is an abbreviation of the class you get when you load types of upgrades, not the upgrade type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last three characters denote the NPC's class. It is an abbreviation of the class you get when you load upgrades of a particular class.
```

Think how `infiltrator` upgrades make you a `wolf`, and `architect` upgrades make you a `weaver`.

The values are as follows:

| NPC | Class  |  Upgrades   |
| :-: | :----: | :---------: |
| ttl | turtle |    locks    |
| wlf |  wolf  | infiltrator |
| wvr | weaver |  architect  |
| rvn | raven  |  scavenger  |
| stg |  stag  |  executive  |

> ## What Do I do with this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What do I do with this?
``` 
De-casing for consistency

If for some reason this information doesn't seem immediately useful, I'll give you some reasons why it is.

> 

Reviewer: This line feels a tad superfluous since this question is begged by the heading and is answered on the next linebreak, but does not need changing for this first page iteration.

Author: I agree with you here. I'll remove it.
